# What is Biofilter?
Biofilter is a software tool that provides a convenient single interface for accessing multiple publicly available human genetic data sources. These sources include information about the genomic locations of SNPs and genes, as well as relationships among genes and proteins such as interaction pairs, pathways and ontological categories. Biofilter will cross-reference all of this prior biological knowledge in several different ways, with any number of combinations of input data.
<br/><br/><br/><br/>

# Why use Biofilter?
While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have been used to identify genetic variants that contribute to disease susceptibility on a single-variant single-phenotype level, other approaches can be used to investigate the association between genetic and phenotypic variation. Use of the software tool Biofilter is one such example of a complementary but alternate approach. Biofilter allows users to work with a range of types and formats of data, including SNPs, copy number variant (CNV), and gene location information, along with a repository of diverse biological knowledge distilled from multiple external databases. Via Biofilter, users can annotate data or results with relevant biological knowledge for analysis and interpretation. Biofilter also allows users to filter data based on biological criteria, allowing users to harness information from multiple sources for the reduction of data for analysis. Finally, Biofilter can be used to generate biological-information derived pairwise interaction models for reducing the computational and statistical burden of large-scale interaction data analysis, while also providing a biological foundation to support the relevance of statistically significant results. The use of Biofilter may help to elucidate a new picture of the relationship between genetic architecture and complex phenotypic outcomes such as the presence or absence of disease.
<br/><br/>